hi everyone and welcome to our session i
just want to thank jason lemkin
sincerely and all of the organizers at
saster we are so excited to be live and
in person how wonderful is it ladies
it's awesome yay great to see everyone
i'm also thankful to be here with you
guys because we have a very hot topic
that we're going to talk about so let's
just do a quick round of introductions
so why don't we start with you sarah go
ahead yeah sure hi everyone i'm sarah
varney i'm the cmo at twilio for those
of you who aren't familiar with twilio
we're a customer engagement platform
delivering a series of
apis for
massive community developers covering
everything from voice to sms email video
you name it
if you haven't heard of twilio you might
not be in the right room
i'm stacy epstein i'm the cmo at
freshworks um we make tools that make it
really easy for companies to delight
their customers and employees crm itsm
hr
you might have heard of us from our ipo
which was last week
[Music]
[Applause]
my name is carrie lou dietrich i'm a
former cmo most notably the head of
marketing that took atlassian public
these days i'm an advisor to companies
including one password segment miro and
other hyper growth companies
hi everybody i'm viviana fega and i'm
soon to be a general partner at valesis
and i'm a three-time cmo with 20 years
of experience as well so thank you all
right so let's get to it we're here
today to discuss a very hot topic
that every ceo and c-suite leader is
talking about today product lead growth
the beauty of it and some of the common
pitfalls that we would like to help you
avoid when you're working with sales
so what is plg it's funny i went online
this weekend to look up the technical
definition so i'll read it to you so
we're all on the same page it's a growth
and customer acquisition model that
relies on the product and its viral
hooks to drive customer acquisition
retention and expansion and what we were
just chatting about earlier today was
that it's actually been around for about
10 years or so
and so we're really excited to go
through what we've learned in the last
10 years is it's been deployed across
all the companies that we've been
fortunate enough to work for so ladies
tell us a little bit about plg at each
of your companies who wants to start
we decided i was going to start because
atlassian's one of the most pure models
and product led growth is really just
using a product that sells itself and
giving people access to
use it
right away without ever talking to the
salesperson and at atlassian that took
place because the two guys who started
the company were in australia and they
didn't want to sell directly themselves
and they didn't want to hire people to
sell and they were selling to developers
who are super excited to never have to
talk to a salesperson
and so putting the product online and
making a product that is so wonderful it
sells itself
atlassian set up a business model that
spent a ton on r d and very little on
sales and marketing to help propel and
make this viral product led growth
and now has tried you know has some
sales that comes through upsell
cross-sell and mostly kind of customer
support sales and we'll talk a little
bit more about that but but the whole
motion is the product sells itself the
consumerization of enterprise software
and the hope that you don't really need
a person to have to sell
you don't the product does not need a
person for you to be able to use it buy
it and continue on happily until you do
sarah so tell us a little bit about
twilio and their model yeah absolutely
so uh our joke at twilio is that we're a
14 year old company with a
three-year-old sales organization um and
up until very recently we were almost
100 percent of cell service and product
led growth motion um you know similar to
atlassian we sell to developers you're
not going to go through throw
inside sales reps at them to call them
and ask what their budget is and time
frame it's probably not going to go down
too well
and at twilio we really focus on how at
every step of the journey we can
unblock developers and get them to what
they need to do so we invest a lot in
documentation we invest a lot in code
samples and snippets to get people
going and thinking about what they can
do with twilio
and it's really just all about making
our developer community successful
yeah at freshworks it's a little
different for us we don't sell to
developers we sell to
technical support teams sales teams
marketing teams it teams that do
internal itsm
i say we we layered on sales a little
bit earlier in our history than some of
the companies we're also not like a
zoom or a slack where it's very viral
i think there a lot of people think of
plg and virality as synonymous but
they're not i think you can still have a
purebred plg model where
it sells itself because the buyer can
get right into the product and they can
actually even use it in a trial or in a
free version and really experience it
and that's what leads them to buy um but
it
it you may not have the viral component
of like you know zoom well i need
another person to be on a zoom call with
me so now suddenly carrie lou and viv
are in zoom too that's not true with a
customer service department it is
actually a buying process and so even
though they may go all the way through
the product through the trial and decide
they want to buy it you still might need
some of that sales to come on and
actually help with
you know getting buy-in from a higher
buyer in the organization et cetera so i
i think you know it is when you're
selling to a different constituent and
you don't necessarily have the benefit
of that virality you might have to think
about layering an
outbound motion a little bit earlier in
the process
definitely
um before we dive into how to layer in
that outbound motion one of the things
that we were also discussing that was
really interesting was just the level of
investment required when you're working
within a plg model
so carol you talk to us a little bit
about that well i was going to add on to
what stacey was saying because i think
she's underselling freshworks which has
a viral
word of mouth business right the the
core aspect of product led growth and
the reason it's so attractive is because
it can be way less expensive than sales
people
there are a whole bunch of things you
might try to sell that don't warrant a
very expensive enterprise sales person
to pick up the phone that's why
marketing and marketing automation and
automated user journeys are so important
in a product led growth environment
there can be a lot of
sales that are happening when someone's
in the product we used to call them wow
moments and we had these amazingly smart
growth analysts that would figure out
how to make those show up faster or
engage people through email and in
product but you know one of the business
model things that's required is to
invest a ton in a fantastic product
for product led growth to work the
product has to be fantastic people have
to be talking about it word of mouth
and a sales person can follow up and
sell that but if you have a dead product
you can't have product like both so at
atlassian the whole business is set up
around this and we invest more um and
and this is from a recent blog from the
cro cameron
on his linkedin that 35
of um
future revenue is invested in r d and
only 15 is in sales and marketing
because there is no sales team of
significant size and so this type of
business strategy underlies it it's not
just something the marketing team slaps
on the front of the website
right yeah great all right
so here's a million dollar question and
go for it well yeah i was before we get
to sales um the why is it so hot and i
know you'll add to it too i also think
um and you touched on this i was having
a conversation earlier about empathetic
marketing and empathetic just
that approach to business and building
products and it really you have to get
into the mind of your buyer and your
user and what they want because you
don't have a chance to do a pitch deck
or to be a really dynamic sales person
who just sells you by how great they
talk about the product they are
literally experiencing the product that
they're going to buy and if the product
doesn't meet their needs when they're
experiencing it they're not going to
turn into a paying customer so it it
it is much more efficient and it's also
it makes your team really focus on
building that great product all those
features all the value that they're
going to get it you you have to be an
empathetic product company in order to
be successful with plg and i think
that's it's been a good trend for us in
sas to get more of that focus on
that great feature yeah and i just add
on exactly to that i think when you're
thinking about the investment you need
to make in plg
you want to think about all right where
does the ownership live and it can't
just be one person who has to wake up
and think about acquisition i think it's
super critical for plg motions to work
to have a shared metric across both your
product and your growth team if that
growth team sits in marketing wherever
it sits but you know it can't be just uh
the marketer you know keeping up at
night sweating about you know hitting
that metric it also has to come from the
product because they're going to be
uh you know they're going to have the
leverage to to make the tweaks within
that onboarding experience or flow or
whatever it is to help move those
numbers the right direction yeah and
every team right the customer support
team needs to think that way and the um
engineering team has to prioritize
features that might be in the first five
seconds of starting it and the email
team needs to be thinking about how you
get people back into the product if
they've fallen off for the last day or
two so i think it changes a lot of the
fundamental metrics and teams yeah i
think it's there's a journey
that we talk about website to trial like
if you if you're doing pure plg they
they may be coming in through your
product they may be coming in through
the website but your whole goal is okay
if i'm plg and they've come to my
website how quickly do i get them to the
trial and what does that journey look
like okay now they're in the trial what
features am i exposing at what point i
don't want to overwhelm them but i want
to show them value am i giving them cues
along the way like how am i literally
leading them through the process to
become that paying customer which is
really pretty different than the the old
world of okay we're going to do a
requirements gathering
session and then we're going to come and
pitch to you and then we're going to do
a custom demo and you know four months
later you're going to tell me if you
want to buy this is like you got to get
your journey from
traffic to trial to conversion down it's
so important with plg and i think we can
learn a lot just from looking from our
consumer lives right plg is the
consumerization of the enterprise people
want to research themselves they want to
comparison shop themselves they want to
try it out and see if they like it
without any pressure i like shopping at
dsw the shoe store where no one no sales
person ever talks to you and they don't
have the most stylish shoes i just don't
want to talk to sales people i'm a great
target for plg and i think we see
across a number of things that there's
some specific audiences most developers
hate marketers and hate sales so for
selling developer tools where atlassian
started plg was a great fit and and up
to 70 or 80 percent even of normal
enterprise sales these days people
research themselves they're not looking
for someone else to educate them in
person
dave i think we might want to move your
next question i know everyone that's a
salesperson in the room doesn't feel bad
i feel really bad for every salesperson
in this room i'm so sorry
we actually do love you and you do play
a very important role but you play a
very important role later on in the
process and we'll talk a bit about that
but we don't i think you touched on this
sarah one thing that we'll talk a bit
about is the org chart and how different
it is this idea that there's now a
growth team which at yammer
it was an independent team that was
comprised of marketing sales customer
service and support product played a big
role analytics as well
you kind of need one thing that you
should think about building as you're
building out your plg
motion is to build this independent
growth team
oh now i think we could debate that so i
advise like six or seven teams and the
cer companies and the ceos are always
like where should we put growth should
growth sit under the cmo should it sit
in product should we split it up
and it's a really tough question because
really it's both right the website team
needs to think with the
testing mindset that's the same as
what's happening in product and there's
so many different intersection points
that i do think we'll see org charts
evolve it depends on the company
everybody does it differently i liked it
how it worked independently but i've
certainly seen it well in a product and
i've seen it roll into marketing it just
depends yeah i mean for us right now it
does roll up to our marketing ops
function but i was talking to another
cmo the other day and they were talking
about different models they've seen one
that i thought was really interesting
was that eventbrite actually
where they've got like a growth kind of
swat team that goes in and attacks
certain parts of the funnel depending on
what's happening in the company right
now they kind of embed themselves in
that team if it's onboarding or if it's
customer life cycle and nurtures or
whatever it happens to be the issue and
i thought that that was a really
interesting approach because you're
really you know you're not just saying
oh i'm just coming out from marketing or
i'm just coming out from a product angle
it's really what the company needs most
overall based on what you're seeing i
love that that's what we did at yamra
was independent it was it would attack
specific issues and go on from there so
let's talk about sales
our favorite um
folks i think i went one slide too early
so if we can go back that would be
wonderful
all right so where does sales add the
most value um who would like to start
stacy yeah i mean
we we definitely have outbound sales i
think certainly as you're moving up in
the enterprise you're gonna the bigger
customers the bigger companies are to
expect to have
that relationship and that higher touch
they just it's part of
how they're used to doing business and
especially if they're spending hundreds
of thousands of dollars or
millions of dollars they want they want
to really meet the people and have that
relationship
so that's certainly as you get higher up
in the enterprise certainly companies
are successful there with purebred plg
models twilio is a great example
but that's i think one area where
where sales might be necessary i also
think
you know there's inbound and there's
outbound you talk about the growth team
are you just trying to capture all the
interest that exists for your
market by capturing inbound are you also
trying to create new pipeline and new
opportunities and we do a mix of both
inbound and outbound because we want
more people to know that we exist that
we're an answer we're in very crowded
markets crm itsm hr
and we we want people to know that
there's an alternative way of doing
business so we're doing outbound
campaigns and programs and and that's
you know sales is working both of those
leads in that pipeline and they're going
to events like this so i think you know
again we don't sell to developers who
mostly just want to buy online without
talking to somebody we sell to
department heads and cios and sometimes
just sales is is the best way to meet
those needs we were debating backstage
about which way is easier to have a
product-led growth company that adds on
sales or a sales-led company that tries
to get into product led growth and we
voted that it was easier to start with
product led growth and layer on sales
than to go the other way and one of the
reasons is you know let's take one
password for um instance one password is
a very successful consumer password
security management company that is now
in business for both passwords and
securities management and so the model
is actually very well established for
product led growth because it's been a
consumer company that's been successful
for many years leads come in they can
buy themselves they can install things
work well
and now there's a sales org to help with
larger more complex deals
and primarily to help people who are
already using a lot of the products go
wall-to-wall and i think really sales is
absolutely helpful in upselling
cross-selling accelerating deals it just
has to be at a company and a scale of
revenue that makes it worth paying those
sales people and that really has to be
the trade-off and so the inverse a
company another company i advise is
trying to add plg on to a very large
enterprise sale to get some like cheap
fast leads but it's totally disrupted
their revenue they slapped it on the
front page and they took off all the get
a demo leads from their sales reps they
messed up their seo
the
whole mechanism isn't necessarily
working because it's not just something
you can slap on it it requires so much
different product development experience
engagement and you can't just steal
leads from sales reps and expect people
to self-serve at this in the same format
yeah i mean i would just say that at
twilio we really think about applying
our sales people again where we can help
get people unstuck and yeah sure nine
times out of ten the developer doesn't
want to be called but there are signals
you can see where they are stuck and
they do want help and i think it's just
a matter of making sure that you're
applying the right uh resources one from
a cost perspective you want your sales
people on your highest you know value
deals but you know second from an
experience if someone is stuck and
legitimately raising their hand you
should be you know helping them and tell
more us more about the um
relationships that you guys had some
massive clients before you had sales
people and you found that you really
needed the yeah i mean i think when you
don't have a relationship and it's all
self-service you're not gonna know
you're not gonna have an ear to the
ground on what's actually happening in
that account what challenges are
happening maybe they're having an issue
with pricing whatever it is um and
without having that relationship in
place it's you know those customers can
um disappear as quickly as they can to
your website and converted
and so i think you've gotta just you
know i think that that as you're moving
up into bigger and bigger deals and
bigger accounts and again echoing what
both of you guys said in terms of how
are they using their products you know
understanding that at the account and
being able to promote the next product
or the next best thing or the best way
to implement what they're doing
is only going to lead to a healthier
account long term i think it's also you
got to stay true to who you are if you
look at like the slack versus teams
sort of fight that went on and obviously
slack was pretty pure plg they would
publicly say they didn't have sales
people they eventually did
but um you know you would have never
thought that teams stood a chance with
such a great product and so much viral
usage of slack but but microsoft had the
relationships with the cios and people
were companies were wall-to-mall while
microsoft that their product didn't even
have to be as good as slack they could
still go win so many customers and they
didn't say oh wow there's this new plg
thing let's go try to have teams be plg
they stayed true to an enterprise
outbound we've got sales people we have
relationships and i mean they certainly
gave slack a run for their money then
you look at zoom versus like webex and
some of the earlier
they just came in with pure plg and said
we're just going to build it so it's so
easy and so great obviously benefited by
kovid but i think that we talked about
it that like i am going to build it so
exactly what my customer wants that it's
just going to take off and maybe they
were a benefit of they benefited from
later technology that
webex and some of the earlier ones
hadn't caught up to but they just
purebred plg they just hit it out of the
park yeah i think you touched on
something that's really interesting when
you think of zoom the product is better
yeah right and i think when you talk
about teams in slack those deep
entrenched relationships really mattered
right
so that's a perfect example of where you
needed sales to come in one thing to
think about at yammer that we did
to help the relationship with sales and
i wonder how you guys run this is we
built this system called mission control
and what mission control did it was
really in kind of an early warning
system like hey there's this very
specific lead that is very hot that
could be very big and we want sales to
call them right now and they fell into a
very specific bucket did you guys have a
system like that as well so the sales
knew hey i need to jump in on this one
but i shouldn't touch these other ones
that maybe should be you should go
directly to self-serve i mean i think
there's a lot to segmenting your
audience in any marketing and sales
strategy and so lead scoring is very
popular and account based marketing and
enterprise targeting i think makes a lot
of sense one of the things i was going
to add on that's kind of interrelated to
those two questions is i think that the
product led growth methodology that i
grew up in at atlassian requires a
testing mindset that's very different
than the sales methodology mindset that
in a sales model and i started my career
as an enterprise salesperson in accounts
where i had to sell internet
infrastructure to more for more than a
million dollars for client or something
so i was doing like large account
management there has to be a methodology
and consistency in a sales territory and
you have structure and predictability
whereas in the product led growth you
might add things in and out of the
product all the time and change journeys
and switch things around and i think
that those different mindsets can be
tricky and so i don't think you can just
like throw things out of the product-led
growth into the sales org and expect
them to go as well as thinking kind of
like a quarter or a half year whatever
their sales quota is in you can't change
things faster than that right yep yep
and one thing i want to touch on when i
talked about mission control really
wasn't lead scoring it was that
integration of product where we could
see if a specific network like a product
qualified lead yes well you could know
how healthy was that network were people
using the product right so that was a
clear indicator as to whether or not the
propensity to sell so that was really
important so awesome i've got so many
more questions ladies so talk to me a
little bit about what are some of the
challenges between sales and marketing
that you guys have faced and how have
you overcome them
yeah i mean i think that you've got you
have to have kind of an honor code
between the two teams to not like if you
started like twilio as a product-led
growth function and company and then
you're graduating to sales you want to
make sure that you're again not running
like an enterprise playbook on a you
know developer base like that because
that could erode the trust and brand
that you've built you know however long
before that and so
we really try to make sure that we are
training our sales organization
partnering with them to first like
identify hey are there new signals that
we should be more aware of and trying to
you know systematize across the whole
sales organization and then you know
just um and making sure that we're um
connecting our sales people with uh our
you know developers that are on the
ground so that they understand what a
good experience and what a bad
experience might be i mean in some ways
it's all gonna work out in the wash if a
sales rep's not able to convert these
people and and
and use what's in front of them to close
business they're probably not going to
be at your company for the long haul
anyway but i do think um to the extent
that you can recognize repeatable
signals in your base and enable your
entire sales organization to
address them in a consistent way you're
going to protect that brand while still
being able to
um you know
get more out of your customer base and
upsell and crossover do you find that
there's a good balance between
sales reps not trying to steal too many
leads from the product led growth funnel
i look i'm always uh like i
we um both i was at salesforce prior to
twilio and it's salesforce and twilio we
kind of have this horseman model of
contributors to pipeline and i'm i never
like to get too wound up around one
horse but collectively what are they all
doing together and if at the end of the
day that
you know by um
mining our self-service funnel in a
smart and effective way that doesn't
degrade the customer experience i'm all
for it i will do it all day long um and
you know i work with a lot of our sales
leaders and sales development team to to
make that happen
yeah i i'm the same way i feel like we
could do a whole session on like don't
try to attribute
this something to marketing and
something different to sales it is a
group effort all the time everything
that i'm doing in marketing is helping
the sales people win and everything
that's happening in sales is leveraging
you know we're leveraging each other
we're helping each other we're all
working on the same stuff i think where
a big collaboration happens again i
talked about this before is that journey
for us the
the trial is owned by product because
it's product right they're going through
the actual product so features get added
to the trial by our product team but
we're heavily involved in helping with
what should that trial flow look like
again what are we exposing along the way
and because we study the pipeline and we
we spend so much time looking at our
conversions we can help product with how
to build the trial
so that it better converts and so it's
not just a collaboration between sales
and marketing it's also with plg it's
all very much a collaboration with the
product team i see a lot of problems as
an advisor i get to see into lots of
businesses which is awesome because i
get to compare them to each other but i
see a lot of problems where
in a pure plg you don't have that much
control over the sales pipeline you only
get as many leads and sales as people
who kind of come into you but in a sales
model
if you add philosophically for every
sales person you add you can add a
hundred thousand two hundred five
hundred thousand dollars of revenue for
each sales person so companies start
adding sales people really quickly
faster than the plg model
um can feed them and then they're
they're doing outbound and you're trying
to feed them with these inbound organic
product leads but you end up in this
stealing process where where this the
product qualified leads don't actually
get to go down the low-cost path to
self-completion they just become leads
for a salesperson to call as soon as
possible and that could be okay it could
be a great super highly qualified lead
right i mean if it's a fortune 500
high-ranking person that's doing the
product qualified then sales person
should call them but i see a lot of
problems of this
you know
especially in the power dynamic between
marketing and sales if if sales is is
kind of the savior of the company
because you're going to hire more sales
people and make more money and and it's
just sucking all the leads you can't
have a product led
success at the same time yeah and i
think that's why you always have to be
monitoring what is that threshold that
kicks it over to sales or when it's
going to hit their dashboard and is that
at the right level should it be lower
should it be higher um so that you know
you're not
leading a really expensive product led
growth motion and feeding the purpose
entirely and there is there is an
argument to be had to say the ones that
are actually really hot and growing fast
are the ones that you should not be
putting your expensive sales people on
let those go and convert right right put
your money and your resources on the
ones that maybe need a little more
nudging and a little you know it sort of
feels risky but if you're looking for
efficiency maybe you should be focusing
on the other ones
nurture goes more with product or
or you know a little bit more
stream one thing i've certainly seen and
for everybody to consider here is that
when you touched on this sometimes
companies will get so excited because
they see some early signs of success
with plg
and then they add too many sales people
and that can actually kill the culture
in many respects because it's never good
when sales people are not hitting their
quotas right
so be very thoughtful around when you
hire and who you hire so you don't hire
too quickly and i think that was why we
were saying it's easier to have plg and
add some sales people so atlassian has
an upsell cross-sell enterprise
sales organization that's not hunters
it's all farmers and sarah was talking
about that the twilio sales group is
farmers it's harder when you have
hunters and then you're trying to add
leads that you're not going to work
because hunters want leads and that's
how they operate right and i know we
only have a few minutes left so i wanted
to actually ask you guys a question that
i'd love to leave with the audience a
couple key takeaways so if there was one
or two like major lessons learned that
you've experienced while building out
plg within your company
tell us a little bit about that why
don't you go ahead and start stacy i
knew you were gonna ask me first i know
i mean i feel like i talked a lot about
them i i go back to the the
i think the collaboration is really
important if you're spending your time
arguing over the fact that well my sdr
called this company 10 times and that's
why they got a trial so why is marketing
taking credit for this trial
um because it was really sales and i
just you know i look at my cro and we
just look at each other like we we're
not gonna fight over this we have a
great prospect that's in a trial and
that means pipeline so
we're all we're doing it right so let's
just keep doing more of it so i think
that's
if you're gonna have
both plg and an outbound sales sdr kind
of motion you just don't get in the
fight of who generated we're all one
team right
you might be making the pass you might
be scoring the shot it doesn't matter as
long as you score the goal that's what
matters for the team so that
collaboration extending it to product to
me is i think the a big takeaway for me
you got a great product led growth crow
too she has the last at least
atlassian
yeah he's great
sarah what do you think and we have a
slide about this we do we get there take
aways but i wanted to just kind of hear
quickly if there was one yeah i mean i
think uh when you're thinking about
marrying product led growth with a sales
organization there's a bunch of
surrounding programs that we haven't
even touched on that have nothing to do
with digital too right like how can you
think about joining both a bottoms up
motion and a tops down selling process
and so you know things we've thought
about at twilio like we have what we
call enterprise hackathons now and so we
will
bring developers along with the line of
business owners at an account together
will have them hack on real problems
that they're having in their company and
at the end of the day they'll do like an
american idol style demo competition on
what they built cool i love that it's
awesome because these developers in a
company get trained up on twilio in a
day
the custom the you know business owners
also get to see uh um you know proof of
concept very quickly uh and you know our
sales organization loves it as well
because it obviously shortens the fuse
between that bottoms up and tops down
motion so there's a whole world of
surrounding programs that i think you
need to think about when you're you're
taking this path to to add on that sales
organization um just to to bring those
two groups together awesome awesome
carrie lou anything you want to add
my dad likes to invest personally and i
have spent the last what 15 or 20 years
being like dad tell me how it works if i
do it just right how will i pick the
company that makes a good investment and
he's like well sometimes it's high high
growth and low you know this and
sometimes it's high this and high that
and what's so frustrating is that
there's no right answer
and i think there is no right answer if
you go home and you're like we have to
do plg it's so hot and you're selling to
large enterprise company customers who
are like i don't know this would be
misqualification but in hr and don't
want self-service or some non-self
service it won't work for your company
like you have to look really closely at
who are you selling to
how do they want to buy and how are you
going to set up the right
profit loss business to serve them most
effectively and and sales and product
led growth are two tools in your tool
belts that you might use but i don't
think you can just over rotate on the
most recent hot thing or you will fail
the company has to be set up to be
successful in that mechanism in a really
serious long-term way it's pretty hard
if you're selling to the fortune 50 to
like plg probably isn't your thing you
need to build relationships you need to
think think about things a little bit
differently so here's just a couple of
the key takeaways that i think we've
talked ad nauseam about on the session
this has been so much fun
but the first one was product must have
product market fit and must be fantastic
people must love to use it and tell all
their friends
absolutely and they have to invest in
product absolutely the network effects
are a critical critical driver um talk
to me a little bit about the technical
teams the small team buyers tend to like
plg we talked a little bit about that um
yeah and i think with like the examples
we've used twilio slack zoom
atlassian these are all companies that
sell to buyers who are really
comfortable buying that way small teams
technical teams they don't they don't
want to get on the phone you can roll
them up later right that sounds good
it's a building systems to rapidly
identify these hot leads however you
define them
beware of the cannibalization so sales
and plg will fight over leads but let's
stop the battles and realize that
although people get comped
you know it's funny we talked about this
once um whenever i would present to the
board i would always present with our
cro because i wanted this to be really
one team so try not to allow that divide
between sales and marketing
so sales adds value in complex
enterprise deals and build a self-serve
model for non-enterprise deals it's
something to really think about and it's
hard to build both at the same time so
try to pick one do that really well and
move on to the other all right and
that's it and i think we're i have one
other thing because we still have six
minutes don't we do oh we do we still
have six minutes that's six extra so i
have a trick because last week i was
speaking at a cmo event on product led
growth and this one woman who worked at
a very illustrious product led growth
company said we just faked it
i said you faked it how did that work
and she said well we didn't really have
them in the product because it wasn't a
cloud product at that time so we had
this really intricate demo
where they like went into a web form and
could click around and do all the key
things we were telling them things would
pop up and tell them to go places and
they felt like they were getting the
experience of the product and then we'd
kick them over to a sales person and we
could do a custom demo or whatever they
needed and it was fascinating because i
think there is a lot you can take from
product led growth to say how do i just
help serve self-serve my customers
better how do they want to experience
a demo and an and a deep
um
feeling for what the product can do for
them and you don't have to change your
company to be product-led growth to have
amazing online demos and yeah i think
it's just premium i think it's getting
prospects to see the value of product as
quickly as possible and that might be
through a real product and or it could
be through like an interactive demo or
whatever you're talking about but um i
think if they can't get to that that's
you know that's where you are going to
have to get a sales person to sell that
vision or you know sales engineering
team and that's a whole other session
right that's really growth hacking yeah
yeah that's a totally other like let's
find different ways to think through our
user livvy breathe them and how do we in
effect hack their brains so they buy our
product which is which is what they're
talking like i think that's the part
that energizes me about product lead
growth right like 20 some years ago i
was an enterprise salesperson but all
the new technologies around growth
hacking and all the
smart people you guys must have on your
analytics teams too like pulling it
apart i think that um speaks a lot to
where things are going and how much
better they're getting yeah i think one
of the things we haven't really touched
on today is that for product lead growth
to work you do need a somewhat similar
um
set of best practices and needs by your
customer so for example my last company
servicemax like
you know you look at slack you look at
zoom
twilio like most companies most buyers
are going to use it in a somewhat
similar way so they can go through
one of several journeys and it works but
like everybody does field service
different and if they go through a
standard journey
you really risk them saying it's not
going to work for me because i the way i
dispatch my technicians is very
different and then they have to do a
debrief and so
that's one of the reasons why plg won't
work is if you can't
walk people through a somewhat similar
journey in your product really if it
needs customization for it to meet the
needs of the buyer you you're probably
going to need a sales team to come set
up a custom demo and show it to them and
it's not product market fit it's more
about the like you know customer
customer service is done you know i take
i get the problem i try to solve the
problem i tell my customer i've solved
their problem it's like not that
different across industries
that's great
well anything else you guys want to add
to our session this has been a lot of
fun great thanks for having me
[Applause]
[Music]
you